Hey guys welcome back to the chorus.
We're the last couple lectures we've been focused on ways to improve the CEO of a page as you know value
gets affected by what we write and how well we write it along with the code we use like title tags and
our use of keywords.
Well I want to take a step back in this lecture and discuss how all of your pages and your website as
a whole can be affected by the general design and technical aspects of your site.
We'll discuss a few of these things that affect SDL and what you can do to improve them.
First off you want to make sure every important page on your site is mobile friendly now mobile friendly
means that your site works on a phone or some other handheld mobile device and that people can easily
use the features and read the content without any problems.
Now in other words viewing a page on a phone shouldn't cause any disadvantage or inconvenience to the
user.
Now all of you might wonder what exactly that means.
Does that mean all the pages have to be built like a rectangle.
No it means that you have to have some responsive design features in it.
Response of design means that your abs they basically have code in it that says how to display given
certain resolutions of a phone sees it takes up a different set of instructions versus if a laptop or
a like Big Mac looks at it because they're using the content management systems like Wordpress for instance.
They actually have a lot of this stuff built in and if they don't use the plugins that do it now Google
will analyze each page to see if it's mobile friendly and it counts towards its Estival value.
Programmers can create a mobile friendly Web site by coding in a way to anticipate multiple screens
laptops phones tablets whatever and take advantage of whatever screen size you are viewing at end.
So that could mean a couple of things.
When you visit your site one you might see an alternate version of the page a mobile only version which
has been designed specifically with mobile devices in mind or two you might see the same page as you
want on a laptop but it gets automatically reformatted to fit the screen.
This is what I was referring to for when I said responsive.
Basically the code will tell it to change its shape depending on the size of the screen that wants to
view it.
Now either technique building a mobile only web site or coding Responsive Web site is an acceptable
way to create a mobile friendly site.
You guys go to heaven Braille dot com and you're on your phone.
It actually is a risk bots version.
So what ends up happening is you'll notice that like the navigation bar because that's something you
have to click and it's really horizontal you can't display on a phone.
So what ends up happening.
Well you have a separate button that only shows up with the phone you click that then it shows you the
navigation buttons so there's little changes like that you'll notice.
Now a mobile only site.
Well try going to YouTube on your phone in the browser and you'll go to him Dot YouTube dot com.
That's basically an entirely different site.
Try to go to YouTube dot com on your computer and you'll see the really goofy looking phone version.
Now if you don't have a mobile friendly site all your pages might look like this.
The Texan links look really small on a phone screen.
Links are hard to tap and forms could be really hard to complete lack of mobile friendliness will definitely
count against the SEO value of your page.
So use one of the techniques I mentioned to improve your value and make it easier for your site visitors
to get what they need.
This is something that Google really started to ramp up on about a year or two years ago.
So they're getting to the point where they really heavily penalize people now for not having mobile
friendly sites.
Google said hey I think it's been long enough that people have been using smartphones.
People need to get figured out and get onboard.
Now the best way to evaluate this is to just get on a phone and look up your site.
But if let's say your phone is out of battery or I don't know just being lazy you could also try what's
called a mobile emulator like this one.
Now this is a fair approximation and might be helpful if you're testing a design but really just use
a phone.
Honestly it's the best way to know for sure how your site looks if people are really into the stuff
will use an emulator because it can show them multiple types of phones.
A lot of the phones they might not own for you you just need to check that your phone has some kind
of different layout or different Web site.
When you try to go to it.
Now speaking of testing and design and other aspect of a page that can affect its s.c value is its usability.
Now usability is not a score or something you'll see on a dashboard.
It's more of a rough measurement of how well-designed a page is to ensure its users can actually do
everything on the page.
You expect them to usability refers to things you could evaluate on your own pages like clear purpose
when you visit a page is it obvious where you are who this is what the site is for.
Things like that.
Does it have good design.
Does the page look pleasing to the eye and has everything readable especially on a mobile phone.
Does it have clear navigation and links.
Can you find the menus.
Do you know where the links go.
Is everything easy to click content availability.
Can you find everything you expect and need to find.
And then does it have functional forms.
Can you sign up or make a purchase easily using the forms on your site.
Again especially on mobile.
One of the last things to look for a list is kind of minor is what you consider clean code.
So do all the links work do all the images show up.
Is anything obviously broken is the page written in a way has lots of work arounds and chunks of the
page that don't actually display things or is it crisp clean and every part of the code does something.
Now if you took this list of items and went through each page by yourself you get a fair idea of the
usability of each page.
But keep in mind that usability testing works best when you ask other people as well.
People who trying to do usual things on your Web site like a web site user do to gauge the design and
usefulness of a Web site for you.
Now if you just get a friend or volunteer to help you test your site just for I don't know five minutes
that can actually give you another perspective that you might not have access to.
Now if you're really serious about this there's also a lot of other tools and legal rolling to the resources.
There's ones where you can pay people and it's like 40 bucks and you get five people to look at your
Web site go through it and then record it as they use it and talk through using it.
There's also easy ones like usability hub dot com the you can do things like five second tests and usability
tests and they do it cheaper but it's like $2 or something per person really down to break the bank
just spend like 20 bucks and you have a decent information and see if some people understand what's
going on on the page.
Now one of the things you might know in usability testing there's also some evaluators out there to
sign up type in the url and it tells you about your usability but usability is kind of subjective.
And so these generators reserve to cover them just because they're not 100 percent accurate I think
they're helpful for pointing you in the right direction but you don't put too much faith in them.
Now one of the things you might notice in usability testing or just by viewing it yourself is the speed
of your website.
Now Web sites be another SEO factor because the slower a page is the less useful it is to the user.
The more often visitors are going to abandon it.
Now part of Google's analysis of a page is called rendering which means Google downloads a copy of your
page and tries to render or download it on its own.
The page is difficult or slow to render for whatever reason Google may decide the page should be avoided
or penalized in some way.
Now if you're curious about the speed of your web site you can use a free testing tool like this one
that pinged them.
It'll give you a decent report on how well the site's doing from different angles including how much
of your site content is made up of images and other file types.
In fact images are one of the biggest sites load problems out there.
So if you and other users upload a lot of pictures to your site and you're experiencing some speed issues
Well that's a pretty serious area to look into your image file sizes might be larger than normal because
they're coming straight from a phone without optimizing it for the web using special code you can require
that images get optimized down to a reasonable size during upload for instance that use to be the case
of what a lot of people would do is when you go to a Web site on your phone it would have code that
basically would resize a big image.
So it ends up happening is to download the big web version of the image and then resize it down to what
should fit on your phone.
Now the better way of doing that is actually to have the server have two images on it have it be essentially
responsive and recognize hey it's on a phone.
Let's download this small version of the image.
Small things like that can early on.
So if you see any bad spots do what you can to improve them.
But if you're not very technical of your site has hundreds of thousands of pages.
Well you might actually think about working with someone hiring a freelancer to help do these things
for you.
There is an entire cottage industry of people who work on SU optimization.
They're not hard to find.
So mobile friendliness usability and Web site speed are all aspects that can impact the experience of
users have and the value of all those pages improving these should have a positive impact on the entire
site.
So they are worth your attention.
Sounds good.
OK.
Moving on.
See you in the next lecture.